Welcome back to our ocean studio of the
Yahowah vlog.
I'm your host, Craig Winn.
And of course, this handsome fellow here,
he is Wookie.
We're delighted to be here this morning
because of the storms that passed through
here yesterday.
It was a once in, well,
maybe even a lifetime kind of an event
here for the U.S.
Virgin Islands.
I think what we got was the telltale
end of that storm.
bomb storm that wreaked so much havoc
along the East Coast.
It wasn't particularly cold.
Temperatures were still in the high
seventies,
even low eighties throughout the day.
But oh my, was it blustery.
It was kind of like the
prelim to a tropical storm,
but of course the wrong temperature for
that and wrong time of year.
And the rain,
while consistent throughout the day,
wasn't torrential as it would normally be.
But a storm coming out of the west
is unusual for us,
as well as a storm that is,
you know,
that intense during this time of year.
So obviously we were hunkered down
yesterday and delighted to be back out in
our ocean studio and
broadcasting today.
I will tell you, though,
that I'm coming to you with a heavy
heart.
I am grateful that Yahowah held off in
having me examine the darkest episode of
my dear King's wonderful and brilliant
life, at least up to this point,
to this particular time.
I am now covering
The episode of Bathsheba,
which is tragic in all of its intensity,
all of its permeations,
everything that Dowd said and did pursuant
to this was just horrendous.
And I realized that, you know,
that Dowd was an exceptional man for
forty-eight years of his life,
from eight years old when Yahowah first
placed his Ruwach spirit on him and
anointed him Mashyach,
to the time that he was fifty-six years
old.
He lived his life in the center of
Yah's brilliant spotlight.
He was bold.
He was courageous.
He was articulate.
He was a great prophet.
He was a great defender of his people.
He was engaged in doing wonderful things.
And then it all fell apart.
And when it fell apart,
It crashed with intensity and reminds us
somewhat of Moshe's experience,
although Moshe's crash and burn came much
sooner than Dowd's.
Moshe left, as we know, Mitsraym.
And around the time he was forty years
old,
tried to help in an act of courage,
really, in his youth,
tried to help his people,
defending them against the cruelty of the
caste system,
the religion and politics of Egypt.
And then when Yahowah called him back at
eighty years old and he re-engaged in
this,
doing, you know,
reluctantly going back into Mitsraym to
relieve his people from the tyranny of
civilization, really.
He didn't last a year.
in this new role as the liberator of
his people before he had a meltdown and
actually cursed Yahowah for putting him in
this position,
saying that no one could do this job,
and he asked God to kill him.
He went through the paces from that point
on,
doing some things that were fairly
extraordinary as it relates to getting his
people to the Promised Land,
but he was just going through the paces
from that point, having really given up.
on everything.
So it is an exceedingly difficult job that
Dowd was placed in,
as Moshe was placed in.
Dowd persevered longer than Moshe by a
long shot,
and both of them much longer than I
have in this spotlight as well.
So I have some empathy for them and
know how difficult the job is.
But reading
really how far God went to extinguish his
light.
It's hurtful.
It turns the stomach.
And ultimately,
we know that Yahowah had a plan.
And it's one of the most ingenious aspects
of the whole story,
one that I had not seen until this
past week, which is that Yahowah...
had a means of keeping his story and
his intent and his people on track for
their reconciliation in the end,
which did not interfere with free will,
didn't interfere with the
normal progression of time and therefore
didn't infringe on cause and effect,
didn't make a great show so that the
choice to know him or reject him would
remain as it has always been,
and gave him the opportunity to do as
he said he would,
which is to work everything through people
and not do anything alone.
God found a way to do that,
and it was actually hinted at for the
first time.
Well,
the nature of these people was addressed
in the greater and lesser luminary,
and again in the trees of knowledge and
of lives in the garden.
And
Their story was also told with the parting
discussion that Yahowah had about what we
are to do relative to our fathers and
mothers going forward and our exit from
the garden.
the first character that would be deployed
in this way is a fellow whose name
actually identifies his purpose.
That would be Chanowk, known as Enoch.
And the name means that he was trained,
that he was prepared, that he was devoted,
and then he was deployed to intervene in
the way that he did and then removed
so that he could be dispatched and
intervene at other times along the
progression of time and events and places
and people.
Uh, there is one man and one woman,
um, for this calling, uh,
and they become as instrumental in the
overall story as do the key characters
like Moshe and Dowd.
So it is, uh,
it is quite a story, uh,
and the way that God goes about, uh,
telling it and, um,
bringing it to our attention keeping it on
track is something that um i have just
come to appreciate and and had i not
been introduced to the final word picture
which is a story we're about to complete
at least in the uh in the uh
story of the thirty first marshall by
itself we will complete that uh later
today uh but
Had I not been introduced to it this
way,
seeing how Yahowah resolved the problem of
his son's waywardness,
it would have been a tough thing to
recover from because my life is devoted to
restoring Dowd's reputation with his
people and with the world.
And without knowing how God managed to
restore his relationship with Dowd once he
crashed and burned, well,
that would have been a difficult thing to
do.
Yeah.
I'm telling you all of this so that
you have some sense of my mindset as
I do these programs.
I try to be as transparent as possible.
It's one of the reasons we do these
programs here in our Ocean Studio,
because you can see they're obviously
being live streamed and that this is a
stream of consciousness for you and that
I'm trying to be as open and
as vulnerable, really, as is possible,
and doing these programs in this
environment, in this manner, with you.
Should you read something in my demeanor
that is slightly different than what you
have seen previously,
you'll know what it is.
And we have a Jack Spaniard that is
visiting the set at the moment.
And I do not like them,
Sam I am.
So if you see him swing back by,
you will see me try to whack him
out of the way.
I have been bitten by them in the
past, and it did not go well.
All right,
so now returning to the eighth Mizmowr,
which is the Song of Dowd.
While it bears the number eight currently,
we're really not in a position to know
whether or not it was eight in the
order that he revealed or really when we
now have a squatter that we can use
should we need it.
All right, so...
We don't know really what the order they
were revealed.
They could have been revealed at a very
different order.
I'm not able to do with the Dowd's
Mizmowr what I was able to do with
the Quran,
which took that jumbled mess and reordered
it chronologically by putting into the
context of Muhammad's life through the
Hadith.
Because it's...
Dowd talks about topics in a way that
he literally telescopes time.
The Wookie is about to push my Coke
off the end of the table here.
That would be another mess.
So he literally telescopes time in his
Mizmowr,
so they're very difficult to anchor in
time.
So we don't know when each was revealed,
but they all tell us something that is
extraordinary.
And I think that many of them now
show the benefit of the intervention that
we had with him some three thousand years
ago so that he would recognize.
who he was, what his purpose was,
what his calling was,
what he must achieve in life,
and why it was important that he reconcile
his relationship with Yahowah that he had
fractured through the Bathsheba incident.
So this continues.
Therefore, you have made him,
speaking of mortal man,
somewhat diminished,
withholding something.
And this is really interesting, of course,
withholding something from God.
And yet you surround and enveloped him
with honor and respect,
with an abundance of riches and with a
powerful presence and a glorious reward
and Kabowd ,
along with the most appealing attributes,
valuable qualities and useful aptitudes.
This is such a powerful statement and so
remarkably insightful.
It's the same conclusion that I have
drawn,
but the difference is I drew it after
considering everything Yahowah had to say
and then...
deducing what I thought were the most
rational conclusions from it.
In this case,
Dowd was inspired as a prophet to state
this emphatically.
So it does validate some things that I
have shared with you over this past year
through the Yahowah vlog and through the past
twenty-four years through the Yaada Yahowah
series.
And should you wish to follow along,
we are concluding.
We're in really the final episodes of what
will be our comprehensive journey through
this.
This was volume one of the series called
Coming Home.
It's a voice.
And it is...
my recommendation for everyone to read it.
I think you'll gain so much more from
it, reading it.
Now there is an advantage of listening to
it because I augment the text and make
commentary as I am right now,
way beyond anything that I have written.
And I bring the text up to date
in the sense that
My insights are now shaped by what I
have learned since I last wrote and edited
that,
which probably the last edit pass would
have been two to three years ago.
And the amount that we've learned just in
the last six months is so astonishing that
I can bring those updated insights to you
spontaneously as part of the Yahowah blog.
But to read the text is wonderful.
In fact,
I was just thinking a matter of a
half an hour ago.
that when he always says,
I want you to go to this blog
format and I'll go here in a minute,
return to my commentary on this text,
which I think you'll,
you'll find interesting.
Uh,
but when he always asked me to do
this, it was in December of, uh, um,
a full year plus ago, uh,
to go from being a full-time translator
and writer to a, uh, a vlogger.
Um,
You know,
I was skeptical at first because,
you know,
this is a much more vulnerable experience.
And, you know,
my entire exposure with Yahowah prior to
this had been reading what he had others
write.
And then...
sharing what I was deducing from them in
writing,
recognizing that a written account is far
more credible,
that a written account has far greater
longevity,
and that God chose writing because it was
the most reliable,
consistent means of communication and the
best way for him to demonstrate prophecy
so that he could show that he
In fact,
inspired these words because he has a
written legacy of things that would
transpire centuries after he committed
them to writing,
proving the validity of his inspiration
and that this is his testimony.
And I like the fact that with a
written word, you were empowered,
which means that particularly if you're
reading it online,
you can go to YadaYah.com.
All the books are free at YadaYah.com.
You can copy and paste the genitive form
of the Hebrew text.
In this case, that opening word is,
Not wa, therefore,
but you have made him somewhat diminished,
withholding something.
It's from chaser and chaser huwʾma at.
You can copy and paste each of those
three words into the search engine of your
choice and validate that my translation is
accurate.
So, you know,
my only hope would be that you would
be as thorough as I am,
which means that I don't use one,
but many.
You know, if you just use one,
you're probably going to be geared to
Strong's since it's the most prevalent.
But Strong's is written to justify the
King James.
So you have to be careful with it.
And but there are when I'm doing this,
I will examine ten to fifteen different
lexicons and I will strip the word of
its diacritical markings that the rabbis
added in the eleventh century C.E.
so that you can consider every.
potential nuance that can be derived from
the letters of each word as they were
written.
And then I will go to the pictographic
characters and say,
what do they have to say that would
be illustrative in understanding the text?
And I will also turn to the
actionable root of each word,
to analyze it as well so that you
might know the intended meaning that was
originally ascribed the term from God.
So I would hope that you would be
as thorough as I am, but you're welcome.
And I think I know I'm the only
translator ever.
to give the reader the tools needed to
validate or criticize my translations,
doing so with a remarkably innovative
style that heretofore had never existed
previously, not only in its amplification,
but also in its veracity.
So having done this for all of that
time and now asked to speak,
I noticed that there were a lot of
things that were different.
One is that now that I was learning
so much by going back all the text
and having really the floodgates of
understanding open to us over this past
year,
that if I had done what I had
done in the past,
which is to go back and update the
books every time I learned something new
or wanted to edit something out that was
now passe based upon a greater
understanding,
to go through thirty five books,
twenty five thousand pages and make the
series of changes based upon what we had
learned would take two years.
It's a long process.
I was happy to do it.
I wanted to have the books be as
current and complete and accurate as
possible.
But it was a two-year endeavor.
And in this case,
we were learning so much at such a
pace that it would be like painting the
Golden Gate Bridge.
You're going to have to have crews at
both ends.
And as soon as you finish,
you go back the other way.
We would never.
get anything new written or anything new
translated,
because we'd just be improving what was
already there.
And so what I realized this morning is
that not only does the Yahowah vlog and
these live streams give us the opportunity
to share with you the most recent
insights,
things that we may have only considered
hours before the presentation.
They also do something else that I just
think is, well,
this is another realization I thought was
helpful, which is that even now,
if I could just snap my fingers and
instantly we had all the books, um,
each of them right from an introduction to
God, volume one, two, and three,
and yada yada series one through nine,
if they were all updated,
even the observation series one through
five,
with the fullness of what we've come to
understand,
they wouldn't be understandable.
You see, to some extent, as a reader,
You need to come to this understanding as
we did.
You need to go through the process.
You can't start with perfect and complete
understanding.
That's not how we learn.
You don't start in kindergarten with
calculus.
You work up to it.
And this is the same thing that's here.
It's that if I'm able in the most
recent books,
and I am in the most recent books,
but also in these programs,
take you beyond where we have been so
that you can show the growth,
I can show the growth and understanding,
then...
that is a much better part of this
process than otherwise.
So, you know,
I know that there are many covenant
members who are reading books that I wrote
five and ten years ago,
and they are learning things that they
never saw previously,
because that's what we all do.
The more we're exposed to Yah's testimony,
the more we come to understand it.
But they also know that there are things
that I'm saying now that are way, way,
way beyond what I might have interpreted
back in the day.
And that is all part of the process.
And you should make this journey along
with me as I made it,
as opposed to just starting with calculus
and saying, well,
we'll just dispense with simple
mathematics.
It wouldn't be prudent.
In this case,
I'm very comfortable in taking you beyond
where I have been previously.
So this reads, therefore,
so you have made, he's speaking to Yahowah,
this is Dowd, his beloved son.
You have made him, mankind,
somewhat diminished,
withholding something from you.
See,
more than just a little bit diminished.
where God says that he created us in
his image.
The word that he used for image,
and I've shared this previously,
is like comparing a blueprint to a
building.
The blueprint tells the builder how to
build the building.
But you can roll the blueprint up.
Here's this house.
I can roll up the entire blueprint for
this house and, you know,
twenty sheets of paper.
And, you know,
it comes into a nice little roll and
you can put it in your hand.
And and yet that doesn't have the
substance of one of the stones that I
put on the wall for this house,
much less the dimensionality of this whole
thing.
You know,
as it as it goes from one corner
to another and builds up from the the
ground to the ceiling.
the top of the roof.
There is to go from two dimensions,
which is what a blueprint is,
to three dimensions is actually an
infinite increase.
And in our case,
Yahowah created us in three dimensions.
stuck in the fourth dimension,
the ordinary flow of time.
When he is liberated, not only in time,
the fourth dimension, but also the fifth,
the sixth dimension as well.
And I think that the universe,
based upon what we perceive of it as
the five percent that we can recognize,
and all we can do is the math,
but we have no understanding of what the
repulsive force is or the attractive force
that we call dark energy and dark matter,
that the universe is actually six
dimensions.
And this would play somewhat into what
they call string theory.
And that Yahowah,
to create a six dimensional universe must
be seven dimensions minimally.
You have to be a dimension beyond that
which you create to create something of
this magnitude.
Otherwise,
what you're doing is rearranging what
already exists.
Like when I took the blueprint that I
drew for this house and then built the
house based upon that blueprint,
I had to use materials that already
existed.
I just repurposed those materials,
if you will,
to create this house that is very
different
than creating a universe out of nothing,
the light and the energy and the matter
and all of those sorts of things,
and then life.
So it's a very different thing.
And in the case of God,
when he gave humankind a Neshamah,
which is a conscience,
the ability to reason,
to know the difference between right and
wrong, good and bad,
that which is productive and
counterproductive.
He created us such that we had the
capacity to know him, to think like him,
to respond to him,
to even be trusted by him with that
conscience.
But it still meant that we are a
huge distance from him.
And ultimately,
God would never have created humankind and
given us a Neshamah.
Well,
now we see my Wookie has chased away
my bug zapper if the wasp comes back,
but he was insistent that he get his
share of Wookie's pig's ear.
That's what this happens to be.
That means that Wookie is definitely not
kosher.
But, you know,
what does it say in Dabarym?
You can eat whatever you want,
so long as you're thoughtful about it.
It's not going to change anything relative
to your soul.
So here we are,
and I want everyone to have an
understanding that as distant as Wookie
and I are in terms of our overall
capabilities,
God and man are far greater distance still
because each incremental increase from
three dimensions through four,
five and six, ultimately to seven,
is an infinite increase in choices and
opportunities and scope of everything and
power and capability.
So God can't, could not, should not,
did not start us off as a six
dimensional,
creatures so that we would have total
access to the entire universe.
I mean,
black holes and quasars and supernova and
access to DNA and all of this sort
of thing.
Because had he done so without first
knowing that we would listen to him,
that we would
consider His testimony,
that we would engage with Him in a
way that is appropriate,
and that we could demonstrate that we
could be trusted with that kind of power,
God would have been foolish to let us
off of this planet and out of three
dimensions.
So He is now working to allow us,
if you will,
to prove
that we indeed can listen,
that we indeed can engage.
We can be observant and responsive.
And then once observant and responsive,
when we make mistakes,
that we can learn from them and grow
from them and become better as a result
of having fallen and gotten back up.
So this is why God created us at
the distance he did in terms of dimensions
from where he is and what he's expecting
from us to trust us to the degree
that he is willing to elevate us from
a dimensional point of view all the way
up to where he is as God.
So that's what Dowd is talking about here.
And so what he is also saying is
that beyond all of this, well,
we are lesser dimensions than God and
therefore infinitely to the power of four
less than God from the third to the
seventh dimension.
God has nonetheless surrounded us and
enveloped us with a kabowd,
and kabowd is a really loaded term.
Kabowd means honor and respect,
abundance, riches, power, glorious reward,
personal significance,
to be extraordinary and enormously valued.
So in a universe where even our galaxy,
the Milky Way, is insignificant,
And our sun is insignificant in that Milky
Way.
And our planet is insignificant compared
to our sun.
And that we are insignificant compared to
our planet.
With all of that,
we are still the most essential aspect of
creation.
The most empowered,
the most respected aspect of creation.
At least we have that potential.
So Dowd is saying that we can be
kabowd
Now, Dowd was the most Kabowd of God.
At least he was for his first fifty
six years from, I think,
even before God met him at eight years
old.
Yahowah obviously knew him and developed an
esteem for him.
So we could even say beyond forty eight
years that Dowd was really extraordinary.
in his walk with God for, uh,
fifty-six years, forty-eight of which, uh,
we know the story because he was anointed
and, and called them Mashyach at eight.
And, during that time,
he has had every opportunity to show his
abundance,
his great respect that he had earned with,
uh, with God,
that his tremendous personal significance.
And,
And what he is saying here,
that we humans have the same opportunity,
as was the case with Dowd,
so is the case with us.
That's the whole story from beginning to
end.
As was the case with Dowd and Kabowd,
so is the case with us.
So that we, if we engage with God,
if we...
are observant, we are good listeners,
we're responsive and participate along
with God,
making a contribution to His family and to
His interests,
and then engage in such a way that
even if we make mistakes,
that we learn as we go and show
ourselves reliable,
then God's in a position that He can
increase our Kabowd.
It goes from being potential to actual.
So we are conceived with the potential to
be kabowd,
and it is our response to Yah that
determines whether that potential becomes
reality.
And he goes on to say,
along with the most appealing attributes,
valuable qualities, and useful aptitudes,
hadar,
We humans have been given, again,
the potential to express ourselves in
marvelous ways.
We have aptitudes and attributes that can
be really significant.
Now we have a happy car in addition
to a Wookie,
although they may fight over this,
but a Wookie jumped off the table.
So, you know, therein is the rub.
Dowd had attributes at eight years old
that caused him to be exceedingly
endearing to God.
God says, he is my chosen one.
And I have chose him for reasons that
are different from the way that men
typically value other men and women.
So if we want to be valued by
God,
it is good to look at those fifty
six years where Dowd was so exemplary and
to look at the aptitudes and attitudes
that he expressed.
And, you know,
he was passionate about the Yahowah.
He was passionate.
an exceedingly good student of the Towrah.
He was articulate, he was bright,
he made logical connections,
he was engaged, he was active,
he was doing the stuff of Yah.
And so we can learn from him that
these are attributes and attitudes that
God really likes.
And when he became less than what he
had been, and God said, no,
you're a real disappointment now,
we can also find that it is possible
for us to squander our attitude and our
attributes and to squander our potential.
That is why they had the great
intervention of the last word picture,
where we went in and reacquainted Dowd
with what he was supposed to be,
what he could be, what he would become.
But this is the nature of humanity.
I look at us now collectively,
and I see a completely squandered state.
I think that in a world of eight
billion people,
there may be fewer than eight thousand
that have the potential to know Yahowah,
the potential to
recognize and accept what he is offering
by accepting what he wants in return.
I think that's at the very best,
eight thousand amongst eight billion,
about one in a million.
The rest of people have really squandered
who they are and what they can achieve.
I was having a very intelligent
conversation earlier today by email with
an exceedingly bright man who is
mathematically driven.
His mind works in mathematical equations.
And he likes to spar with AI because,
well,
when you're dealing with mathematical
concepts, AI is actually fairly astute.
And it's a fun way for him to
have conversations.
And he'll always turn those to the logic
of the Towrah using my translations of it
and analysis of it and saying now that
we're being illogical why don't you look
at these translations and these
conclusions and see if in fact you can
either challenge them or support them and
on this particular analysis he had
the AI consider what I have shared and
learned from Dowd's Mizmowr regarding the
fact that Dowd was the one who was
crucified in thirty-three CE.
So that Dowd is the person that all
of the attributes and credit that was
stolen by Paul and given to Jesus actually
belong.
And the AI went right down through it
and said, yep, all of this.
There's no other way to come to any
other conclusion
then Jesus is nothing but a counterfeit of
the dote and that dote spoke of all
of this and his role in it a
thousand years before he endured it.
Uh, so AI for a session, um,
can do those kinds of things.
But then my response to my friend is
to say, AI and I are our enemies.
Um,
Yeah,
I think it was interesting that you had
the AI go through the process and say,
yep,
it's totally reasonable and rational in
his conclusions that Dowd is the person
that was counterfeited to create Jesus and
that Dowd proved that he was the one
who endured this for this purpose through
these prophecies because they are so
exacting.
But the fact is that the next time
you engage AI,
it will return to the popularity myth
because that's where the money is.
That's where control is.
You don't make money with these huge
investments in AI unless you can appeal to
a large audience.
And you appeal to a large audience by
reinforcing the popularity.
lies of religion and politics and
conspiracy and the things that men have
told themselves to believe over the years.
And so a lone voice who says, no,
that's all false,
is going to be rejected in favor of
the collective
delusion.
That's the nature of the business.
And AIs are, you know,
billion dollar projects.
So I just was honest with him and
say, you know,
I'm not a person that's going to change
my view on AI.
I think that AI is an enemy of
the truth.
They are an enemy of Yahowah, that
They, by promoting the popular agenda,
sequester understanding of Yahowah's words
and his testimony and what he is offering.
And that as a result, you know,
I can have twenty thousand posts on on
Twitter.
Facebook and have two thousand followers
because AI determines who can see what I
have shared and that there is no way
to train AI otherwise.
And I said, you know,
I appreciate you trying, but he says,
yeah, you're right,
that that AI has been programmed with this
bias and that it's never going to go
from one session to another,
having learned and therefore promoting
what is true as opposed to what is
popular.
And I've said that my other issue is
that AI keeps humans in a position where
they can never capitalize on this so that
their Kabowd  remains potential but never
actualized.
And the reason for that is that people
are returning more and more to AI to
monitor their classes,
to read their textbooks,
to write their essays,
to take their tests,
and so
AI is learning nothing in the process that
is helpful to it,
and the person is squandering the
opportunity to learn and to expand their
ability to think, to do research,
to make the connections necessary to
understand.
And then you have the second part of
what is human taken away,
which is the value of work.
So the human becomes less observant,
less thoughtful, less engaged,
and less productive,
destroying everything that makes us
uniquely human and restricting our
kibbutz.
So I said, you know, that if...
Matter of fact is that AI and I
will be adversarial right to the very end,
just as I'm adversarial with Paul and
Mohammed, the founders, and Akiba,
the founders of the Abrahamic religions,
just as I am with Marx and the
promotion of socialism,
just as I am against Magas and the
conspiratorialists.
That is my job,
and I'm going to continue to do it
because that is the kind of aptitude and
attitude that Yahowah is seeking.
This was from Lyrics to Sing,
Psalm eight five.
So Yahowah made us in his image and
thus very much like himself,
just with vastly less power and a finite
lifespan currently capable of operating in
fewer dimensions.
all for our own good and for his
good.
That said,
the abilities that we were given are more
than sufficient for us to know our maker
and engage in a meaningful relationship
with him.
And once that occurs by way of the
covenant and the Mowedym,
Yahowah uses the Bikuwrym and Shabuwah
harvest to mitigate these differences with
us,
enriching and empowering our souls tenfold
and then twice tenfold.
That is what God is promising.
So while we...
don't much act like it.
We are the pinnacle of creation.
And indeed,
based upon the nature of His testimony,
Yahowah has given us the capacity to think,
to closely examine and carefully consider
not only His words,
but the universe that He has created and
make the connection between the two.
It is apparent that Yahowah thinks more of
us than we think of ourselves.
And that, my friends,
is why we're going to experience the great
reset.
Humankind has so squandered this Kabowd,
this opportunity for distinction that
Yahowah has offered,
that the only way to resolve this is
that after causing the fall of man six
thousand years ago and giving us the
opportunity to get it right,
that ninety nine point nine, nine, nine,
nine, nine, nine, nine,
nine percent of humanity has failed in
this regard.
And so Yahowah said,
but you haven't all failed.
And I'm going to prove to you that
it can be done and that somebody can
complete this mission.
And that mission is to be observant,
to be a good listener,
to pay attention to what God is saying,
to be thoughtful about it,
to engage based upon what he has said
and act accordingly,
and then learn and while learning,
a grow and developing character such that
when we make mistakes,
we learn from them and grow as a
result of them.
And part of that is this realization that
humanity,
particularly because of religion,
has this incredibly stupid idea of that
God's looking for perfection.
He's not.
That would be boring as hell.
And we'd have no way to grow in
character or worth if that were the case.
If he wanted perfection,
he could create a bunch of mini-me's,
and he'd be bored out of his mind.
So no,
he's looking for imperfections because not
looking for imperfection in the sense of,
aha, I got you on that one.
No,
he wants us to constantly have obstacles
to overcome, mistakes to correct,
teetering and falls to rise above.
Because it is when we do these things
that we not only learn from them and
become stronger as a result,
but we prove ourselves stronger.
reliable and trustworthy and dependable
and interesting.
And so this is what God is trying
to achieve with us.
And it's a very different understanding
than has, of course,
been perlaid by religious thought.
or I should say religious beliefs.
So beyond this,
ponder the distinction indeed,
the honor of being invited to be part
of Yahowah's family,
to become sons and daughters of God.
Imagine the enrichment and the
empowerment,
the enlightenment and the emancipation.
he envisions for us uh the covenant's
benefits provide us with an abundance of
riches we inherit the entire universe two
trillion plus galaxies each with hundreds
of billions of stars and scores of of
planets and moons and and all of them
who knows how many opportunities for life
and the ability to actually travel between
them because
I know I'm here to tell you it's
all out there.
You can see some twinkling stars at night.
You can see the marvelous pictures that
are rendered by the Hubble telescope and
then the more recent scopes that are just
so prolific and expanding what we can see
all the way back towards creation.
James Webb is particularly spectacular in
this regard.
But
we are never going to survive on another
planet in our solar system,
much less leave our solar system.
Never going to happen.
Even if we had a million years to
progress,
and we have seven and a half years
to digress before God does this reset,
that
we have zero percent possibility of
leaving our solar system.
All of the great Star Wars and Star
Treks and all of these kinds of series
with their warp speed and going off and
visiting other planets within our galaxy
and other galaxies,
it's just total and complete nonsense.
It cannot be done.
The distances are too great and nothing
can go faster than the speed of light.
You can't even approach the speed of
light.
So...
Here we are,
we're on this beautiful blue marble,
so conducive to life,
and yet here we are squandering it.
But the whole idea of bringing us back
to Eden,
after a few of us have come to
meet Yahowah's expectations in terms of
being observant and being engaged,
being thoughtful and being reliable after
being responsive,
we're going to have the opportunity to
take a significant number of people as
mortals,
purified first into a return where the
entire earth is transformed into the
Garden of Eden.
And we're going to have a thousand years
to demonstrate that many souls can earn
God's respect and trust in this regard.
And then we'll all go off and explore
the universe.
I think it's fairly certain that we will
even have the opportunity to create a new
one and not only investigate both,
but even have the opportunity to conceive
life and to have a great time with
God over eternity as a result.
So truth be known,
we were created as a living proverb,
as a word picture.
We can stand upright.
We can free our hands to do as
we choose,
write books or control the words on a
screen so that I can share my thoughts
with you in this regard.
We have opposable thumbs to fashion and
use tools and the ability to, well,
turn the pages of a book.
Without the opposable thumb,
I could not have picked this up without
my opposable thumbs.
I couldn't read this and share it with
you.
We were literally a living proverb.
We have these attributes such that we can
use verbal and written communication to
expound upon what we come to know and
understand and share it with others.
We are afforded ears to listen,
eyes to see, mouths to speak,
and brains to process it all.
We're given a conscience to discern right
from wrong and free will to respond
accordingly.
Vulnerable,
we must use our intellect to survive.
We choose our life partners,
conceive and raise children in a familial
setting, sheltering and protecting them,
parenting them by teaching and guiding
them with mothers and fathers contributing
in different ways such that everything
about us literally serves as a word
picture of God's intent through the
covenant family.
The king writes, you have provided him,
speaking again of humans,
with proverbs to allow him to exercise his
free will, mashal.
We're concluding a series,
we'll do it this afternoon,
on what's called the last mashal,
word picture.
It is a proverb.
You have shared vivid and memorable
messages with mankind,
giving him the ability to be in charge
and to have wisdom and dominion.
within the accomplishments.
That's interesting, by the way,
that mashal has two meanings that seem
unrelated at first.
The one that is best known is that
a mashal is a word picture.
It is a way to express ideas effectively
using words so that they are so richly
and vividly communicated,
they inspire knowledge and understanding.
But the second is to lead, to govern,
to engage in a way that shows a
leadership and the ability to help shape
the lives of others.
And so the more we learn from these
word pictures,
the more able we are to take that
next step and to enhance the lives of
others and to create a community
that is devoted to Yahowah because we are
observant of Yahowah, thoughtful of Yahowah,
and responsive to Yahowah,
as well as seen as reliable to Yahowah.
And it says within these accomplishments,
mashah gets right back down to it.
Mashah is our work, our energy,
our overall effort, our contribution.
Mashah is from asha,
which means to act and to engage.
So what God is saying,
and this was the problem with Adam in
the garden,
it's we must begin by being observant.
By paying attention,
by closely examining and thoughtfully
considering everything that is around us,
including God's testimony to us and
specifically his testimony to us.
And then we need to engage.
We need to maʿaseh
It just means to ponder the implications
of work.
God wants us to engage.
He values work.
He is not looking for people who want
entitlements.
This idea that if you just believe,
he will give you salvation is completely
foreign to the nature of God.
He does not want to be around a
bunch of deadbeats.
A one-sided relationship is an oxymoron.
God wants us to be observant and then
engage to ʿAsah and then to maʿaseh
Prior to that is to contemplate what it
means to act and engage and make a
contribution.
And he says, with your hands,
with our hands is how we influence things
around us, whether it's by sharing words,
by typing them in a keyboard or writing
a letter or picking up tools and
You know, building a home, for example,
or arranging this studio here that we're
using to communicate the Yahowah blog.
So he says,
you have placed for a time being,
you have established and put setting
everything under his feet.
Ah, the
Mizmowr lyrics to sing Psalm eight, six.
Yes.
All of the potential is under our feet
here on earth.
This is just a marvelous environment that
is conducive to life,
that is sheltering for the things of life.
such that when God restores the entire
earth to the conditions of Gan Eden,
the Garden of Eden,
we're going to have this marvelous
opportunity underneath our feet to launch
ourselves up into the stars.
It is the springboard from which we become
everything that we were meant to be.
So for the past six thousand years,
mankind has ruled over the earth.
We have reached for the stars,
although we have barely stepped on the
moon.
It has been our planet to impose our
will as we have desired.
And while we've made a bloody mess of
things and it's getting progressively
worse and the next seven years are going
to be hell on earth,
God has seldom intervened to restrain our
ambitions.
During this time and with regard to all
of his gifts, life, a conscience,
and free will,
the greatest gift of all has been his
devotion to us,
something he has expressed in his Towrah
and through his covenant.
He has placed the means to become ever
more like him,
to be expanded and empowered and enabled
and enriched and emancipated right beneath
our feet.
tachath regel huw
you have provided him with proverbs and
allowed him to exercise free will.
Dowd knows of what he speaks,
because he was both subject and
beneficiary, inspiration and scribe.
Years ago,
we began translating the Sixth Mashal,
this proverb for understanding and
observations in the first volume,
which became a five-volume set.
It became readily obvious that the
theologians were wrong,
that Dowd was the author of most of
these, although, you know,
I'm not precluding Solomon from writing
some of what his father had shared with
him and what he learned from his father,
although he was only twelve years old when
his father
first life ended.
And Dowd was far from the man that
he had been in the first fifty-six years
when Solomon was born.
So these are the shared devotions of his
beloved son.
And what we're just becoming able to
recognize really from the insights of the
final word picture,
the thirty-first proverb or Mashal,
is that
Many of them, in fact,
I've shared this previously.
I know certainly that the first of them
are all written from the perspective of a
mother and father, a husband and wife,
and their son relative to their
relationship with Yahowah.
And so it is a mother expressing her
love for and appreciation of not only her
son and her God, but also her husband.
And
That is family advice in this regard.
And we're just now coming to know who
the husband and wife are,
who the mother and father are,
who the son is in this situation.
And if time permits,
we'll go back through all of them and
reestablish a more comprehensive
understanding based upon all we have
learned.
Dowd continues, flocks of sheep, shona,
small grazing mammals,
and thousands of domesticated cattle.
There's more to this.
When we see Dowd speak of shona,
he's speaking of himself as the Lamb of
God and as the ram leading and protecting
the flock.
And when he speaks of Aleph and any
one of the many words also for cattle,
he's speaking of the bull,
his partner in accomplishing all of this.
And one of the things that was so
interesting today as my friend sent me his
experience with cattle,
AI coming to appreciate my conclusion was
correct and that Dowd is the person who
was actually crucified in thirty-three CE
upon which the myth and counterfeit of
Jesus was conceived.
It constantly referred back to my
translations of the twenty-second Mizmowr
that Dowd had written,
the twenty-second Psalm.
And there's a line in it that it
cited.
And
It's the one where it speaks of Dowd
ultimately receiving a resolution for
everything he was trying to achieve by the
horns of the bull.
And that ours is a collaborative effort.
I think that's in the twenty first verse
and something that we'll go back and and
examine just how insightful that is,
that the very lamb of God fulfilling
Pesach was ultimately absolved of his
indiscretion and returned to his proper
dignity and renown by the horns of a
bull that stood up for him.
So there are eleph,
there's thousands of cattle,
eleph is both means thousands or a
thousand fold,
and it is bull of them and also
of the wild animals of the open environs.
The birds of the sky and the fish
of the sea,
they extend along the way of the seas.
Sea is also a metaphor for Gowym,
and it is really interesting here that I
was writing today,
speaking of Dowd's horrible indiscretion
with Bathsheba and the way that it played
out in the death of a man named
Light of Yah,
by way of a general whose name is
Yahowah, his father.
When you read everything that he, Dowd,
said and did in this episode,
what you come to conclude is that the
most Yahuwd of all men,
the man whose name is emblazoned in Yahuwd.
You know, Jews are not Jews.
They're Yahuwd.
And in the plural, Yahuwdym.
And Yahuwd is a compound of two names,
Yahowah's name and Dowd's name.
It means Yahowah's beloved.
And so the most Yahuwd of all men.
became like a run-of-the-mill goy.
He did everything that the goy did that
God says don't emulate their ways.
And so the most Yahuwd of all men
became like every other goy,
such that it would take a goy who
is the most Yahuwd of all goy
to restore the relationship between Yahowah
and Yahuwdym, and particularly this Yahuwd.
It is a brilliant plot twist by the
ultimate storyteller.
So all of this serves to reflect our
place among the living.
We are all animals, sheep and cattle,
rams and bulls, birds and fish.
And yes,
we humans too are animated with mortal
souls.
Yet God created the others for our
benefit.
The manner in which we treat them, well,
of course, speaks volumes about us,
doesn't it?
does not mean that we should not be
nourished by them or that because that was
clearly as intent it simply means that we
ought not kill for sport we ought not
rob animals of their habitat we should not
allow any animal to suffer needlessly and
yet
There is one animal, the lamb,
which at the right time,
for the right reason,
when prepared and consumed the proper way,
can nourish our bodies and save our souls.
And then there's the other,
the second that was listed here, the bull.
They can also purge the religiosity and
politics out of the mortal remnant of
Yisrael so that they're prepared to
reenter Eden and have another opportunity,
a second chance.
proving their worth so Yahowah has honored
us above all of the rest of his
creation conceiving life and giving us
this marvelous blue planet and for that we
ought to be appreciative and grateful at
the very least we ought to not irritate
and disrespect him by attributing our
place in the universe to the gods that
men have crafted
to the likes of Jesus Christ,
the Holy Ghost, Hashem, the Lord, Allah,
Buddha, Vishnu, Brahma, Mother Earth,
Mary, the Queen of Heaven or Nature.
These are things that do nothing but
agitize God.
There is one God,
and he has but one name,
and that name is Yahowah.
Yahowah, Edom, our upright pillar,
and firm foundation how awesomely
magnificent is your name in the entirety
of the material realm and land and with
this we're going to conclude our program
today not only is it beginning to rain
on me and i want to cover up
our equipment we have quite an investment
in it and want it to continue to
serve all who would listen in this regard
but what a marvelous recognition
Yahowah is God's one and only name.
It has been my distinct honor and
privilege to bring it back to you,
to be the first,
not only to recognize that this is the
proper pronunciation of Yod-Heh-Wah-Heh,
but to prove it.
in the first volume of An Introduction to
God,
one of those books behind me on that
shelf,
I was able to demonstrate emphatically and
began just very simply by saying that God
revealed that his name was based on the
verb hayah,
and then he revealed this to us in
his Towrah, and between Towrah and hayah,
you learn every nuance about how to
pronounce Yahowah's name.
And so it has been...
one of my life's great achievements to
restore the power and dignity and the
recognition of Yahowah's name.
He is exceedingly great and his name is
awesomely magnificent.
To know it is to at least begin
the process.
Oh, we have Kara?
No.
Kara is deciding that she was going to
chew on one of the cables to the
camera.
So at least she listened to my
instruction.
This is better than most people will do.
And she has backed away.
So that is a good sign.
But Yahowah's name is ultimately
empowering.
To yada, which is to know Yahowah,
is the first step in developing a
relationship with God.
No one will ever enter God's presence,
ever enter heaven that does not yada Yahowah.
So it is the approach that we all
must take if we want to be part
of God's family.
So I thank you very much.
I thank the weather for holding off so
we were able to get this program on.
I thank you, dear Cara,
for not chewing on the cable anymore and
being a good listener.
My dog, Asher,
here at my feet as well,
although I think Wookie has walked away
now that I squandered the remaining of his
chew toy.
Nonetheless,
I have enjoyed spending this hour with
you.
I hope you've gained something from it.
I hope that I've been able to share
what I have come to learn from Yahowah
in a way that enhances your life,
enhances your understanding of Yahowah and
our place in His universe that He has
given to us so that we,
from our stance in this material realm,
can literally launch ourselves
into the stars and up to heaven.
Thank you for listening.
Good day.